life because god has designed the body of
christ the body of believers to work together um
and so i actually thought of this this
week and so riley's not in here so i can
talk about her so riley i was one
that did um our uh announcements
and so she moved up here from oklahoma with us
um about a year ago so whenever she moved up
she got to share her story with the mission team
this week and one of the things i heard in riley's
statements was not just words of faith but actions
of faith see i always make this statement riley
was in on coming to cincinnati before i really
realized what it meant to be in to plant a church
here in cincinnati and so the cool part with that
is she had already taken action steps she was in
and over and over again what she
would see physically with her eyes was
she thought she would have a job before she moved
here she thought she would have a house secured
before she moved here and none of that happened
but that didn't stop her from taking faith steps
because she believed that god had called her
to come and the cool part is it it didn't
happen immediately but over time god began to
open doors see there's a lot of those stories
even within this church over the last year and a
half that we've seen people take steps of faith
because they know that god is going to win
the battle that god has a plan for their life
even say this riley would even say this that
all of us have linked arms to accomplish
and to win the battles in our life to be
able to push forward with faith they had
the faith but they didn't do it alone again
that shield was linked with somebody else and
we pushed forward and we saw victory and
we celebrated and gave god glory for that
i'll tell you this the shield of faith means
so much to me because to plant a church it
takes a lot of faith and it's not just a lot of
faith of words but it's a lot of faith of action
and if i had to do this alone i would make it but
god never designed for me to do it alone it's not
just about me it's really about the body the group
of believers people that want to partner with us
to do this and so i always talk about the mission
team they're from o'fallon missouri but they came
all the way to ohio missouri and if they didn't
come what would we been able to do this week for
vacation bible school i think we would have done
a decent job but man they linked arms with us and
they did an amazing job and so i thank you so
much for doing that for taking faith right to
come all the way here and spend a week with us i
mean that took faith in action right but thank you
um so i just i would say this hey yes yes let's
clap thank you yes um but then i think about this
so the reason why we don't move forward a lot
of times with our faith so we'll say i want to
have faith anybody ever remember the scripture
where the the father says um uh it says hey
believe and he says help my unbelief there's
those moments we have this crisis of faith
and it's a reminder that the opposite of faith
is what does anybody know opposite of faith fear
the opposite of faith is fear so we've been
learning all week in vacation bible school
that god's word is truth see john 17 17 says
god's word is truth and so whenever i think about
um man am i supposed to have fear
in my life as a follower of jesus
and really second timothy 1 7 says this it says
for god has not given us a spirit of fear but of
power and of love and of sound mind see i think so
many times we talk about all that god's given us
but there's times we need to write down what god
hasn't given us god has not given you a spirit of
fear which means the opposite god has given you
a spirit of faith not in yourself not in your own
abilities but in his and his call in your life
and the only way that you'll really discover
what that is and how to have that faith is through
a personal relationship with jesus spending time
in his word and i i admit this every single time
when you jump into god's word especially as a new
believer or maybe you're not even a new believer
and you're still just figuring this thing out
it gets confusing at times but this is where
we link shields and we sit down together
i've been doing that with uh joe and kristen it's
just let's walk through scripture together and
help one another discover the faith that we need
to have right discover god's purpose for our lives
so i just i encourage you this the shield of
faith pick it up in every situation link those
shields together right so true faith is not just
talking but it's actually testing and see that god
has proven to come through and provide for us and
so just think through that as we continue through
this is there ever a time where maybe you have
lacked faith and i'll even challenge you with
this is maybe there's someone waiting on you
on the other side of you taking a step of faith
because a lot of times we think individual with
this right faith is just all about me and it's
going to help me but really faith taking those
faith steps is going to impact someone else's life
so i challenge you to consider that right so
then we we're going to continue on this right so
we have the shield of faith but then we have the
helmet of salvation and it says this all kind of
read it here it says take the helmet of salvation
the sword of the spirit which is the word of god
so we think about a helmet it covers our head
what's in our our head is our brain our mind and
so we know this the enemy tries to deceive us
by controlling our thoughts anybody ever had a
negative thought towards yourself self-defeating
right just so you know that's not of god
that is of the enemy uh and so if you've ever
dealt with out right that's the enemy trying
to scheme or to deceive you into thinking that
you're not good enough you can't be forgiven
you know there you name it you all know it i don't
have to have you say it out loud right but we i
think about this and this is the interesting part
right we have the ability to put on this helmet
which protects us from the enemy doing that and
it says it's the word of god but i think about
this anybody ever play that game with other kids
where you would trick some of the other kids into
you could reach people's minds and and this is how
we would do it we'd sit about five or six friends
together two friends would be in on it the one
reading the minds and the other one that would
help you figure it out they would turn around
figure out a number it could be 27 it could be 10.
they'd figure it out okay it's 10. i'd
sit there and just think close my eyes
meditate whatever you want to think and i would go
up and just put my hands on their head because i
can read their minds right but really it was just
clenching our jaws the number that was there right
so that's sometimes what we think is like okay
well the enemy has full access to my head and
and he can read my mind and all this well
absolutely you know he could if we don't
put on a helmet right he can deceive us and
get into our minds and and do that but he he
can't if we put on our helmets and so i'm
trying to build this case in this idea of
you know we we have the ability to fight
our battles from the place of victory
but it's not because of lack of god's side it's
lack of our side of putting on the armor of god
to win the victory right that's where i think
the miscommunication is is well if i'm a believer
everything's gonna be perfect absolutely
not read the bible i mean believers had
horrible things happen to them but we do know
that god has the ability to win every single
one of those battles no matter what happens to
them because they put on that full armor of god
so whenever god controls the mind right the enemy
has no ability to um control the mind and i think
that's so important for the believer right the
word of god is so important to defeat the enemy
in that so when we think about this helmet of
salvation salvation has two pieces to it the first
one is one salvation refers to saving someone from
something right so we i think all get that idea
of being saved from our sins when god sent jesus
to die on the cross for us he saved us from
our sins when we repent and believe in that but
there's another aspect that i think we miss living
in too often the other side of the salvation is
really freedom freedom is another word for victory
see when we have put on the helmet of salvation
we are freed from our sins we are freed from the
enemy's ability to deceive our minds and we need
to live in that confidence and the only way we'll
live in that confidence is if we continually renew
our mind daily with the truth with the truth um
and so this is one of the things that ties
following jesus if you you'll hear what do
we talk about the most especially in our small
groups um is get in the word follow jesus that's
the number one thing we want to teach people to
do follow jesus that means spending time in his
word and putting in that helmet of salvation and
understanding that god's truth will reign through
anything that the enemy wants to deceive us and
i'll just encourage you with this if you're ever
struggling with maybe winning the war in your mind
there is a pastor that wrote this book winning
the war in your mind named craig groeschel i
read that book in a season when i needed it
i needed to be reminded of biblical truths that
i could repeat over and over again that would
help me overcome the enemy's attacks and so just
know this you're not alone if you deal with that
there's a lot of us that deal with that we just
want to admit it but let's go back to the shield
of faith let's link arms together and help one
another overcome that in our lives and so we need
to remind ourselves of these things right so if
god's word is the way that we overcome the enemy's
deceiving tactics ephesians 1 3-17 remind us of
these thoughts right we need to say this over our
lives we are blessed we are chosen we are holy and
blameless and redeemed and adopted and forgiven
and these are things that we need to
remind ourselves that god loves us
he desires to have a relationship with you
he's overcome all these things so don't let
the enemy win so then the last is the sword of
the spirit the sword of the spirit talks about
um a couple of things one is when i think of
a sword i think of a huge sword and this could
be an answer what paul was mentioning but most
believe that paul was talking about the sword
which would be a double-edged sword it would be
a small sword that you would use in close combat
so this idea of paul mentioning this sword rather
than a longer sword that you might not be as close
makes you think about this that we fight
our enemies at close range so the enemy's
not way over there and like we're just kind of
like looking at them but we are in close range
every single day with our enemy and so this sword
is so important because it's our offensive weapon
right we really don't just again defend
ourselves but we go into action to defeat
our enemy and i know this as a kid i loved playing
with a sword and one of my favorite things was to
do is end the sword fight with getting stabbed
with it on the side you guys know that on the
side and falling over and i lost but it was
just fun but sorry that's just a side note
but i just when i think of a sword like i think
of all the fun i used to have with the sword so
take the sword of the spirit run with it let's
have fun okay that's what god's telling us
um but it is an offensive weapon right and
so we we are a lot of times playing defense
as a believer and so let me give you an
example sometimes we come to faith in christ
and we go okay i've made it all i got to
do is get to heaven heaven get here quick
and that here's the thing i want to see heaven
i want to see jesus i don't want to deal with
pain and suffering any more than i have to but if
you're still breathing today and i'm guessing you
are because i haven't seen any fall over yet if
you're breathing god's not done with you yet still
a battle in he's given you the armor to win your
offense is the word of god the sword of the spirit
let's go into battle together let's not just
hang back in defense and make it to the end but
let's go win the battle so what is winning the
battle look like one to winning the battle in your
own life but it's also winning the battle in other
people's lives guys our purpose here as a church
is not just to meet as believers and celebrate
what god's done for us but it's really to share
with others the hope that we have in jesus it's
not good news if people don't hear it so we need
to go to battle with our swords in our homes and
our neighborhoods and our families our schools
even in our churches and just tell people
god loves you he sent his son jesus to die
for because he loves you so much and we want you
to know that we want to show you god's love but
loving not not only on you but on your kids right
with vacation bible school and encouraging you to
to know the lord and walking alongside you right
we're not here to condemn you we're really here to
to actually free you from the enemy's lies we
all have an enemy we all have an enemy it's just
whether we realize we're in that battle and we
know what to take up to go defeat that enemy right
so it's important for us not to just say no right
a lot of times when it comes to a believer early
on it's like i just got to say no to sin no to
sin no to sin well if all you do is say no to sin
all you're going to do is think about that sin and
then that's just going to attract you to sin right
here's what it is it's not just
saying noticing is saying yes to jesus
so he says to turn from our sin and to to follow
jesus and as we do we defeat our enemies it's not
just about saying no but it's about saying yes so
hebrews 4 12 even reminds us right that the word
of god is a sword so it says this for the word
of god is living and effective and sharper than
any double-edged sword penetrating as far as the
separation of the soul and spirit and joints and
marrow it is able to judge the thoughts and the
intentions of the heart and so the word of god
pierces our hearts and convicts us of our sins
right and i want to encourage you in this sin
you know a lot of times sin sounds so
condemning and really it it does condemn
us to be separated from god in a relationship
with him but you know what sin really is
it's not god's best for you he's got something
better for you if you think of it that way i'm
okay great example i love ice cream and you guys
may not understand this if you're from cincinnati
but i'm from oklahoma and i love brahms ice
cream if you don't know what brahms is i'm sorry
but if somebody puts brahms ice cream
up and they give me something else
i'm choosing brahms every single time that is a
horrible illustration for where i'm going here
but if god says freedom grace mercy he's
going to stack love he's going to stack hope
strength and then you have sin destruction lies
deceiving which one you're going to choose i know
which one i want to choose and it's a daily choice
see that's what god does god's not sitting there
wanting to make you feel like oh gosh you need
to feel bad about your sin no yeah you need to
turn from your sin but he doesn't want you to stay
in that that moment of oh gosh this life apart
from god he wants you to receive the freedom you
have in that relationship i hope that makes sense
to you because that really encourages me whenever
i think about right it's not god's best for you
but god has way more for you and he's
offering it every day so we're just going to
finish up this way i want to kind
of pull it all together hopefully
if you've missed everything i've said lean
in now hopefully you can check back in okay
hopefully your social media accounts are good too
because i know i do that too i'll start scrolling
facebook and forget everything so here you go
turn them off let's go let's try to figure this
out here so how do we win the battles in our
lives how do we do it we're all facing a battle
the first thing you need to realize is that you're
in a battle i'm telling you this that sounds funny
but that's it we do not realize we're in a battle
but everybody's in a battle whether you know jesus
or you don't you're in a battle and number two we
have to realize that we're fighting battle from
a victory why because we will be defeated if we
don't realize that we are winning from the place
of victory which means this sometimes you go into
battle and you're losing every day and the problem
is you haven't picked up god's vast strength or
any of his armor to win so you have to realize
god has given you the ability to win so you have
to realize you're in a battle and you'll be given
every piece to win that battle okay here's another
one we have to know what god has given us right so
okay god's given us something to win but what is
it so it's the armor of god so here's just kind of
a rundown of the armor of god right his armor of
god comes with his vast strength and i'll always
say this it's not just his strength paul clearly
states vast your words may be totally different
but vast strong whatever it is his vast strength
it comes through his armor the belt of truth
right knowing the truth to defeat the
lies the breastplate of righteousness
not leaving ourselves open to be wounded but
protecting every crevice and part of ourselves
to not be defeated the shoes of the gospel right
receiving peace and giving peace the shield of
faith again blocking the devil's attacks but
then marching together in victory the helmet of
salvation not just saving faith but walking in
victory right and the last one is the sword of
the spirit attacking the enemy with the sharp
word of god why did paul tell us these things
again another probably poor illustration but
two days ago i was outside and brandon which
isn't here he's leading this mission team he says
hey you have a bee on your back i didn't want to
get stung so he kind of shooted away see this is
paul saying this you've got an enemy on your back
and here's how to win why is paul telling you this
because he wants you to be aware that you have an
enemy and you're in a battle and here's how you
defeat it see i love a friend like paul don't you
want a friend like that that sees a bee on your
back doesn't just run and scream like my daughter
but that actually tells you and then helps you
see we all have a friend in jesus right
he makes us aware of our enemy he tells us
how to defeat our enemy but here's what i know
we'll never defeat an enemy we aren't aware of
we'll never defeat an enemy by ignoring it or
hoping for the best we will never defeat an enemy
without a personal relationship with jesus the one
who helps us overcome every single battle we're in
so have you given your life to jesus i don't
know only you can answer that question so here
in a moment we're going to have invitation so i
always communicate this why do we every church
have this invitation where they sing a song and
we're all supposed to stand there and act holy
the purpose of invitation is really for us to
consider all that god's just talked to us about
if you didn't hear anything from me you heard
the word of god i'm hoping you read that part
and god spoke to you but this
is a time for you to thank god
where am i not picking up the armor of god
in my life and applying it where do i need
to begin to write on my mirror in my bathroom on
my journal wherever that i need to pick this up
this is a time for you to consider
is my relationship with jesus right
maybe you haven't given your life to jesus and
that's if you haven't the greatest thing is
today is the dalation it's not complicated it's
called knowing recognizing you need jesus asking
god to forgive sins because you know that you
can't do this without him and ask him to come
in your life it's that simple and so i want to
talk to you about that so during invitation one
of the things that we do is me and my wife will
stand in the back because we want to be able to
talk with you if you have questions about what
it means to follow jesus maybe you have questions
about what i just talked about come back and talk
to me ask those questions we want to help you
figure out what that that
means for you to follow jesus
but here's the last thing i want to mention i
know in a room this size there's a few of you
that are struggling you're struggling to win the
battles and you need someone to walk alongside
you welcome to inspiring hope church that's
what we're here for we are a family and if you
are the first time here welcome to the family
like we don't wait six weeks to figure out if
you meet a certain criteria you're in we want
to walk alongside you in this life i thank god
that he's given us the opportunity to meet today
to say that to you so if you need prayer because
you're struggling in your battle you have a
relationship with jesus but you're struggling
come back there we want to pray with you we want
to lift your arms up we want to walk alongside you
don't miss the opportunity to consider what
god's told you to say to apply it to your lives
because god wants you to win the battle right
he wants you to fight from the place of victory
so as we pray we'll get done we'll all stand
to worship but again please come and talk to
us if you have questions or you need prayer
so let's pray lord jesus god you're good um
if i had time lord today i could share every
single moment where you've extended grace but
lord that might take years lord i know that i have
been in such a need of your grace and mercy and
a reminder of your word to win the battles in my
life lord and even the battles i was facing last
week and the battles i'll face next week lord i
just thank you lord for your word to remind me
what i need to pick up lord even as a pastor
there's areas where i know i have not put on
that armor and it is time for me to put it on
and protect not only myself lord but also to go
forward and win the battle lord for other
people to help them discover hope in you
lord i pray for every person in this room lord
that if they're struggling in their faith or if
they don't know you personally lord that they
will stand up not only to worship and to to
consider lord how you'll help them overcome this
but lord may they walk to the back and find me
or brittany and just say hey will you pray with
me or will you tell me how it is to follow jesus
lord i'm praying for that today
because you are the one that draws us
lord thank you for this time to celebrate all that
you did through vacation bible school this week
lord and i just pray that all of us will leave
change this week because of what you taught us
through your word and that it's truth so
lord we pray this in your heavenly name amen